Workings (short)

Movement:

The Base movement on the map can be done by clicking on the 4 direction
buttons that are placed on the bottom of the screen. People that dont want
to use the mouse can use the keyboard for movement. The base movement can
be done with the W,S,A,D keys. Left turns and right turns are Q and E.

Fighting:

Fighting is quite simple. Just right-click the 1st or 2nd weapon from the
character that you want to fight with. A normal weapon (like sword) will
always work. A Spellbook will work 2 times and then all mana is depleted.
(You have to find a resting place to restore the mana)
Spells will work just 1 time and can't be used anymore after that. If weapons
or spells are in your inventory or on the ground then drag them from there to 
1 of your hands and after that they can be used.

Health:

When fighting monsters the Health of the characters will decrease. Be carefull
that the health will not become zero because then the character will die.
You can swith your character with another one (only the first row of characters
gets wounds in battles !), you can drink a health potion or you can camp on
one of the resting places to restore your health.

Items/Inventory:

Items that you find on the map can be taken and carried along. Each hero has 14
storing spots called his inventory. When you click on a user portrait you can see
the inventory of this person. After that you can drag and drop items from your
hands or the ground from and to the inventory. Just click the portrait again if
you want to close the inventory again.

When you stop the game the game asks: "Do you want to save your inventory ? "
Be aware that if you say "Yes" that both your hand weapons and the complete
inventory from that moment will be saved and restored the next time that you
will be playing the game. 
(When you save the wrong items in your hand or your inventory you can restore
the initial version of the game! Just replace the game DB called: 'RPGGame.mdb'
with the backup DB 'RPGGameStartup.mdb' in the game map "Database")

Path/Map:

On the bottom of the screen you will see a mini-map that displays your path that
you travelled on this map. This map is very handy to investigate if you have seen
all the availible spots on the map if you are looking for special items.
The map is small but it can be enlarged by clicking on it.

Direction:

The direction that you are going is very important. North East South and West.
In the past large compasses were used for this but they took up a lot of space.
I have replaced them with the simple letters N,E,S and W on the top of the screen
to indicate the direction that you are travelling.

Camping:

When you camp your Health and Mana of all characters will be restored. Unfortunately
most places are not safe to camp because Monsters will be near. Just try out secret
places on the borders of the map if you can Camp there. Click the CAMP button at the
right bottom of the screen to try the camping.

The Characters:

Currently there are 4 Base characters in the Game. If you want to change their 
names you can update the users.xml file in the XML directory. If you want to
change their appearance then you can change the picture files character001.png
until character004.png in the Chars directory.
Make sure that they have a 100x100 resolution.


Game Mechanics:

All the 4 characters in the game are Fighter/Mages. This means that the characters
can use normal Fighter weapons (like Swords) but also fire Mage spells. Mage spells
can be fired from a Spellbook (currently fireballs) which can be repeated or only 1 
time from a scribed spell. The characters in the first row dont have spellbooks 
loaded but they have them availible in their inventory if you want to use them.
Please note that when you remove the shields from the fighters in the first row
that they will receive greater damage during fights.

When you Exit from the Game the progress will not be Saved ! You have to complete the
Game in 1 session otherwise you will have to restart from the beginning when you start
up the game the next time. During your game session all defeated Monsters are gone and
will not return again during that session.



